
History of Tech Writing
=======================

Ada Lovelace was the only academic able to converse with Babbage on
the properties of the difference engine. The first telegraph machine -
Morse, the creator of the morse code, researched
telegraphy. Expensive, long distance circuites require networks.
Morse’s code required one wire.

Isaac Asmove “Samuel Morese was a religious bigot and a racist” high
levels of historical racism.

Cyrus Westfield conceived of the Submare telegraph. Back in 1851, the
Bright brothers had permission to study telegraphy, running a 47 mile
cable across the England/French Channel.

An English surgeon named Wildman Whitehouse intercted with Thompson,
working on current down the copper wires, batteries ferrying large
scale voltage. 10:15am Aug 16, 1858, 04:00am Aug 17, 1858. Sep 3rd,
the wire fails. Then American civil ware in 1861. People claimed it
was a hoax. Newsmedia claimed it was to sell stock in a company. A
share buying and selling scam. in 1865, there was a second cable.
Brunell. The cable fell into the Atlantic ocean while the ship
attempted to lay the cable.

This is a brief survey of 18th centre trans Atlantic Submarian
telegraphy. It generated an enormous amount of technical documentation.

1958 “It has been said that in this age the man of science … yet
has no ways to say it… disregard the help of correct literary
expression”.

Binac documentation manual.

Donal Kanuth Author of the Art of Computer programming.

1976 - The Palo Alto research centre at Xerox Park. This is where the
Alto - a compute similar to the modern desktop - a manual for how to
use the Alto composed in the mid 1970’s. This is an interesting
crossover of written information architecture, and physical
architecture of the building.

1982 - Andy Hurtzvelt “revolution in the valley” . Apple from 1978 to
1985-86. “By april 1982 - UI implementation - was ready. Developer
docs were needed here. Understanding the underlying concepts that
allow this process to function. Examining the concepts of the
window api”.
Caroline Rose. She didn’t mid admitting it until she did not
understand, and figure out the answers to her questions. If
Caroline had questions, it usually meant the design was flawed.”
Collect it into  “Inside Macintosh”.

Questions

What is the “binary word capacity” in the historical Binac ?
What does the converter in the Binac do?

Home and Away! (Best Title )
----------------------------

How to avoid explosive introversion? How to speak to developers?

   - the Beer solution.
   - Staying up late to speak to developers

Face to face > Telephone > email > IRC

Wake at the same time. Office clothes. Arrive at the same time.

“It’s important for your job that you be who you are, and communicate”
“You don’t get to talk to your colleagues, but you need to be your best
human self so you can be the most effective communicator you can be”

What are the ways that outside forces can impose a routine to keep
timing going?
Shared Calendars with a team - highlight the free time and
lunch hours etc.


Talking to Engineers
--------------------

Translating from Engineers to documentation, to users and customers.
Past career as  a journalist - insight into telling new readers how
something works. Engineers and writers communicate in different ways.

Ask simple and short questions - specific things.
Ask questions one at a time
Write up a proposal that can be approved or knocked back
Do research and use the product before asking for help - Figure out
what what the users will want to do and experience.
?What was step six?
Give a deadline - deadlines based on nothing can be helpful.
“synthetic deadlines” Calendars can help
“No shame for not knowing a technical question”
“It is also okay to push for a more informative answer”
“Explain the problem to a rubber duck” this method is used for
breaking down a procedure into a steps.

Docs Unconference
-----------------

Procedures.

Error handling process. End users dislike flowcharts.
Error Handling maligned?

OpenSource.com Many open source websites don’t have
strong documentation.

Documentation column. Not on a schedule. Always
looking for content on best practices for writing
documentation, workflows, and other best practices.

Rikki@opensource.com

Let’s talk about debt
---------------------

Documentation program manager.

The future costs incurred by not taking time to plan out
and do things correctly.

Usually, docs requests constitute Feature Requests, Bugs, and
Enhancements. A sign of technical debt is an issue with technical
debt adding up. The two key tasks needed to plan, and help avoid this
problem is to establish requirements, Establish time frames.

Vague requirements result in vague docs.

Wording, style, grammatical accuracy. “If you don’t understand it,
readers might not either.”

People will find the flaws in the argument. Communicate the
technical concepts and procedures in a way that readers can understand.

Convention Planning
-------------------

User Guides have the minimum users need to orient themselves
without any extraneous items to exhaust the reader.
You need your documentation to be as dumb as possible. Make
it as a plain as possible. If you can cut filler words, take them out.

Wiki’s risk mixing out of date information with up to date content.
Please implement a sensible taxonomy.

DAY 2

Open Data:  A better way
========================

The open bin map recruits open data about bin collection, and
waste management.
Open trees.org organises and presents council tree cleaning data
and meta data for trees:
Tree species spread, size, date catalogued. An entire open database
sorted by map, with a dialogue box describing the meta data of
each species.

Drainage pipe, dog maps for walking in Geelong, restrictions and
changes in corporate. Parking and restrictions for the council spaces.

Opencouncildata.org
@stevebennet1

Open Learning Initiatives
-------------------------

Open Learning removes as many barriers to entry as possible. So, how do
we make it accessible to more learners? The OpenTechSchool.

“Teach programming of all kinds in a non-judgemental environment to
audiences of all kinds”

A learning environment caters for any question is welcome, and a
1:1 question addressed for a face to face manner. Provide tools for
people to set up their own workshops. Translation into lots of
different languages: English German Korean Russian Romanian.

1 barrier for entry is providing laptops for attendees who cannot
provide their own. Indigenous groups if possible. Place events on
their radar. Auslan is another plan.

“Tell people what your endeavours are otherwise they are never
going to know”

lilly@attacus.net

Open Learning and Hackathons in Game Development
------------------------------------------------

Hackathons:

   - Encourage “work until you can’t” ethic
   - Product like outcome
   - No follow up

Game James are about making something cool. Game devs are shallow.
Impressive and flashing. Competition thrives in this environment.

“Games don’t need users or customers to be a viable thing. They
stand on their own”
Why Game Jams are an interesting, and a spirited Open
Collaboration #lca16

Games can convey understanding - Hand wavy, but examples:
People take away information faster than a diagram web app.
They engage, more quickly than static data.

“Marvellous Ultimate Appliance” - uses open data from average
household income
“Question Time” uses open data on government Hansard logs -
semantically broken up into pieces on what was said, voted on,
and when, and by whom. Voice shorthand runs on Linux. It
captures this data using vocal keyword recognition.

You can find similarities between games, data sets, and
open education. But:
Don’t try and model real world appliances.
Taking liberties to make users understand.

Audiences:
Judges and Audiences,

Warning: Don’t try playing over the internet, Don’t get
clever. Ignore bandwidth, trust the client, ignore long
term balance and replays. Recruit an audio engineer.
Some advice for Jams and general. Time is your enemy -
When an event has a time limit, consider the deadline
oriented issue. All-nighters lie to you. “You will never
do your best work, if you work at all, on an all nighter”.

Preserving meaning in games.

Using external pressure to constrain yourself. Most people
think of games as big things. Smaller scale, like in
comics, can help newbies improve steadily.

@thesecretlab
@desplesda
@parisba

Producing and sharing open data
-------------------------------

Using personas of different users, and recognising
different users knowledge gaps.

Prying open government freedom of information
---------------------------------------------

Dan Hawke - Freedom of information. Available throughout the world.
You can use it to request documents from the government. There is an
ombudsman who can review and reject the application.
In Australia, any persona can make a request. NZ law only allows
physical presence, citizen, or incorporated organisation.

Specific information - and a specific time period for the information.

The NZ transportation branch of the government Replied exactly on the
20 day response deadline. They replied with specific answers for the
question because Dan’s questions were strongly phrased. with clear wording.
The news media regularly asks for Student Load debt, beneficiaries,
and other government information to report on. You can use Alaveteli,
an open source application, to contact the organisations

Open Systems Specialist is Dan’s employer. oss.co.nz.

The Internet Archive now with API
---------------------------------

Archive.org 3.4million people vista. 4million streams per day.
They do not store IP addresses. Logs fake visitors.
“Privacy is important to us, not because we are  library,
because it is the right thing to do” on not logging IP addresses.

the swayback machine is updated within hours. Most well know captures.
This go back to 1996. alexis.archive.org.

What dictates swayback and archiving? Paid by organisations.
They deep crawl popular sites.

Every retweeted youtube link receives a crawl, and store from
web archive. Everypage on every wordpress.org, and every link
embedded in the page is crawled and archived. The primary goal is
to reduce 404 reactions on the web.

You can also back up the website yourself. They also scan books.
They have 30 scanning centres in 8 countries so far.
They process 1000 books a day.

“We’ve been doing containerisation longer than docker” Literally.
Physical archive of books. Open Library.org.

They have 2 million items of video’s stored on the library archive.
Ephemeral items. TV is a citable resources. Extreamly useful for
referencing in papers and journalism

Also, a software archive. All open software available.

How to use the Wayback API interface

url= <just url. does not need https encoding or otherwise>
timestamp= in yymmddhhmmss format
callback=

404 handler.

Open Library API. The few services they have that is well documented.

Do-We-Want-IT? API for testing if they need a book for not for their
archive.

The IA search is a more ind depth search. The IA Search API

This is a Lucene-based search.

The Internet Archive S3 Light API. Translations needed. This does
just about everything in Internet archive. “Universal access to
public office” This is the archive goal and ethos.

is-wrapper has utilities for the three API items.

@vmbasseur
``zotero.org/internet_archive_open``
``http://archive.org/donate/``

Catarina Mota - Keynote #2
--------------------------

Everything astonishing was that Xerox park had created and
built different items from repurposed appliances. ITP. The
school “Most of us are not geniuses. Most of us were just normal people
who landed in an environment of rapid, experimental creativity”

The first question is “what is changing” - collecting a pattern of
unrelated phenomena “ The emergence of what can be described as DIY
hardware
“ Raspberry Pi opens entry into electronics. “The serious and useful
to the playful and whimsical”.

RepRap printers. “Designed in such a way as it can make it’s
own parts…about 50%”

Are we passive participants? “Watching television became a
part time job for every citizen in the developed world” Sharky.

But Self determination theory. Competence and interesting
built environments, interconnectedness, and independance.
What allowed this theory to explain the events of the most
recent Internet Rise, communities, and fabrication tools.

Why should you care?

   1. Machines are not neutral. “The shape of technology depends
      on the context in which they are created” “ The shape of the
      technology determines what can be done with it” So the needs
      of the persona within their environment affects the choices
      of what to build. What is feasible.

   2. Distributed approach - users become co creators. Individual and
      collective shaping.

   3. It enables sharing and more collaboration to build better worlds.

What incentive to manufacturers have to get on board with
democratisation?
Hardware is highly compatible with business. We need business
models that are compatible with
non-intellectual property. The idea that we do not meet manufacturers
to stop, just shift into a different style. Entrepeneurs can show the
way to being in an open ecosystem.


Continuous delivery with Firefox
--------------------------------

Laura Thompson.

They did not want to cause update issues. It has a check for
whether the app can update, or the user is busy. Firefox add on
updates. “We are moving toward a world where you can update one
string at a time.” The whole update needs to get away from a string.
“It’s amazing how angry people get about the shape of a tab” Strike a
balance between fix things quickly, or support strong user experience.

Firefox is developing telemetry requirements for shipping new features.

/Firefox/Go_Faster Mozilla wiki page.

Firefox ships Security policies, block lists of things that crash
browsers. Dictionaries. etc. It takes 12 hours to ship a release.

Parts of firefox: Balrog connects to Kinto. Kinto sends to data to
Firefox … something about add ons …

Better shipping for canaries, A/B changes, and data visualisation.
A canary in a coal mine. Ship something to 1% of the users, and if
it does not crash or cause  a bad experience, than the pool increases.

Worst case scenario is Firefox crashes with no recourse to repair this.
Most startup crashes are caused by back end issues.
C++ code inside the back end.
Tracking projections for the backend - an add on shipped with issues.
More telemetry (What does that mean in this context?).
Small releases mean isolated problems.
Problem diagnosis is easier.
Any add on that changes config without an ability
to change back should be discouraged. Informal collaboration takes
place between open source browsers.

LTR and Right to left Language
------------------------------

Your eyes are drawn to the top left of the screen. This is why
logos are in the top left. The script is about eye movements.
What you expect from typing and content.

Logical versus visual rendering

Someone, a coder, had to write backwards. The Byte order, in a
logical order arranged script by logical placement of characters <?>.

http://ltr.wtf - An investigation of right to left languages.

5 Hash function Enter, 1 leaves
-------------------------------

A has functions convert text into another type of encrypted text.
These cryptographic hash functions
make it as difficult as possible to generate collisions.
Non-Cryptographic Hash functions - They are faster.
Avalanche effects
Primes
FNV-1A Landaue in 1991 Fong.
FNV-0 did not have random selection of has numbers.
0110 0001 = lower case a in binary ascii

CRC32. An old and common algorithm built into most computers.
Basically a reconstructed way of a binary polynomial.

MURMURHASH3 - Third iteration of this hash.
A relatively simple of example of more modern hash functions.
A lot of modern hash functions are going to work with Seeds.
This operates on 32 bit words.
Modern CPUs prefer to take words at a time, read ahead, and caching.
What you can see in the example, is trailing bytes.
There are loops, multiplications, and rotations.

CITYHASH32 - More work per block that Murm etc.
Works slower, unexpectedly, than the other functions.

SUPERFASTHASH - A bid dodgy. It has no initial state.
The mixing function operators on four byte chunks.
The left and right shifts in the mixing parts are the same amount.
Which might be an issue down the post processing path.

JSHASH - Written in c89, not fun for 2016 writing.
0.2% of execution time looking up keys in the has table because
only 5% of buckets were used.
We try to minimise overhead when writing a profile.

Know that that HASH3 and are fast, but miss steps in the loop.
This means know your environment.
Know also your requirements. @LGnome.

Swift Sharding
--------------

Container shard how swift works

You can use curl API to communicate with Swift.

Swift has an Account, a container, and multiple objects
inside the container.
Swift deals with accounts so well, treat accounts and containers
as objects. These are SQLite databases.
They are replicated. But their size is a a big deal.

Rings identify data placement in a cluster.
It is a mapping function.
Rings have partitions and connect to exit nodes.

What is Byte order? What are pivot points? Do the rings
talk to the pivot points?
Identify the best node to pivot on
Objects are deleted and added all the time.
This is what is meant by good enough. Keeping count and
choosing the one that is the highest would be an efficient idea,
but the nodes need to keep in contact with head other.


Persistent Memory
-----------------

Matthew Wilcox.

*What is Persistent Memory?*

Retains data without power
NV_DIMMs are available from multiple companies. These copy and hold
memory in the event of power loss
A boutique solution.

-Persistent memory is created on boot with a script
-Academics listed a number of ways to use the memory
-Unconstrained by practical issues, like software in an environment
-Total persistence vs. The memory is not cached.
-Application persistent vs. Snapshotting an application - which source
was flushed from cpu cache and which was retained?
-Completely redesigned operating system - persistent memory becomes a
political point where people push their software ideas
-Small mods to existing system - Wilcox’s team created a solution to
cache cost (?) errors.

How do we use Persistent Memory?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The CPU cache is willing to create dirty lines, not finding any clean
lines. The CLFlush takes a dirty cache line and removes it.
CLFlush was originally implemented as a … CLMB transitions chache
lines to a clean state. As software people, we need to
know that the instruction made it. PCommit - persistent commit -
tests that. If that returns, you know that there is a a system
guarantee that everything before the p commit has been flushed out.
So if there is a failure?

NVML
~~~~

Non volatile memory library. It can work on SSD

   - The NVML provides poem support libraries
   - It provides an array of atomic blocks, because some data structures
     are exactly 97 or other block sizes large.
   - libvmem - uses persistent memory in a volatile way. The choice is an
     easier path, or a slightly better performance.
   - lippmemlog - appends a log to an a memory P return.

Transactional memory object store
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It supports C++. The safety is C based type safety done with macros.
It is not transparent. The C++ support conforms to the idioms
the programmers expect.

NVML
~~~~

made from a RED-BLACK TREE, B-tree, and a Crit-bit,
A hashmap, Key-Value Store, and P mem objfs.

Demo

Played a space invaders game in the presentation. Because the
laptop does note have persistent memory in it,
it is using M-synch to back up the disk. With m-synch disabled,
The RAM has less taxed ability. So with persistent memory instead,
the software performance was faster, and backed up the high score.

http://pnem.io/
M5v94A-tZSc - youtube ID for video, 45 minutes in

intel.com/nmv


Anti-Harassment Methodologies
-----------------------------

*Some of the content contains violence and sexual assault*

Targets of violence are often minority groups. Referencing Kick Ass
by Mark Millar. Social Media presence. Similar to Speaker’s story.
Gamer Gate. Professional gaming is a hostile place for women workers.
A script written in pearl for blocking gamer gate posts and
twitter accounts. Thousands of people signed up on the script.
NY times editorial board. Brightbart are a
“right wing sexist…tabloid”. Companies, friends, and family
are targeted.
Adam Baldwin used “Non compliant” in a serious question.
Just like in Bitch Planet (DeKonnick, Valentine). This could happen
to anybody.

Meta data analysis online involves media reports over time, violent
images retweeted, sophisticated bot usage. Emojii use. What about
other community focused platforms? Moderation tools on reddit are
non-existent. community segregation is needed for the future.
Reddit: community score based on participation. Limit scores for
harder, attention drawing topics. Monitoring for external links.
Twitter - Mute conversation topics. Protected accounts with conversation
. Filter notifications by meta-data - only talk to accounts older than
two days, like Mario maker. Youtube. Positive comment scoring use.
Commenting - Civil comments - Report something or abuse - needs
ticket number. Typing - some severity.

The Future will be awesome, and what you can do about it
--------------------------------------------------------

Paul Fenwick on future technology and emerging ethics.
The future arrives much faster than we expect.
It is much more calming for us as humans to say that
this (the future) is never going to happen.
“One weird trick I have learned to talk to people about the future”
“Think forward to 1000 years in the future. Imagine there is a
future where … is…” where future item can do this future service
for future users.

Machine ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What does it mean to act in an ethical way? Would people buy a car that
could self destruct by driving off cliffs to save an errant pedestrian?
Here’s an ethical question - how many people would need to be
nconvenienced before the pedestrian (Child) should not die?
If you are going to inconvenience 8 million people, then the
death is tolerable. The moment you insist that no one should ever die,
you find that these future vehicles are too slow. Imagine a software bug,
one each year, kills 2000 people. A concentration of liability despite
the death rate only being a fraction of the 40 million annual traffic
fatalities - 2% of road deaths. Legislative change -
state funded insurance. Insurance changes. This might leans to company
owning half a million autonomous vehicles.

Trucks
~~~~~~

Most of the costs of truck driving long hauls offers an interesting
change. Not Technological Unemployment, with robot’s driving in straight
lines to things. Industrial revolution was the major historical instance
of this. 1812 law - it is a capital offence to harm a robot, or through
an action, cause a robot to come to harm. Actual law.
1830 work week. 1988 - 40 hours. Work week stabilised at 40 hours.
Leisure time is 122,400 leisure time in 1995. Innovation increases
during leisure time. Drones are particularly useful for disaster relief.
“Burrito Bomber” is a great idea. Lethal Autonomous robot LARs.
Spot and kill without human involvement. It cannot be jammed.
It is stationary. Zephyr solar powered drone. These drones can monitor
pacific ocean weather patterns from the troposphere.
Human Rights Watch has called for treaties on these kinds of robots.

Machine Intelligence
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``Watson`` is the IBM machine that won jeopardy. Watson is
learning the entirety of human medical knowledge.
It is getting better than humans at diagnosis.
*Recession* is the process where policies are revoked based on minimally
related medical nondisclosure.

tinyurl.com/pjf-lca2016

github.com/pjf/future-is-awesome

Documneting the Linux Kernal
----------------------------

In the most recent 4.4 dev cycle, 13.071 merged,
Linus merged 20 of these. But what is the process like?
And management is involved:

   - Get others to do the work for you.
   - Make sure that the problem statements are correct, the
     solution is correct, the process is handled, and it is documented.
   - Managing the trees that feed directly into the mainline repository.

In the end, all maintainers push directly to Linus. Documentaton tree
has many files, over 200,000 The two faces of the tree
includes ordinary text files, and formatted .xml files. KernalDoc
comments are all indicated by /** comments throughout the kernel
doc source. These describe functions, structures, and unattached
documentation. Is Documentation/SCSI part of the docs tree?

“Documentation is a gigantic mess, currently organised based on
where random passers by have dropped things”

Kernel docs have no vision at the moment. Things are attached
wherever they fit. There is no cross document links. It is
considered an entry point in kernel development. An alternative
for white space fixes. There are numerous output formats
if you can use the tools effectively. The point is this is a
documentation system built by kernel developers.

A perl script moves across the kernel source docs three times,
building the html output for the docs, and taking snippets from the docs
to add to manual and —help templates. KernalDoc are missing formatting.
the script is brittle and slow, and the results are
not stylish.

No style sheets.

As of 4/2/16 The new markdown… . They want to drop docbook.
Use a simple markdown for everything.
Sphinx or ascii doc. Jani Nikula attempted to do the thing right.

“By making it easier to work on and improve docs, we can head in
that directions”

“If there is good documentation, it is easier to bring in other
developers to help [current] developers move forward.”


A new editor - EDLIB
--------------------

Neil Brown

LateX involved in this item. EDLIB. The idea is everything is pluggable.

   - Multiple document back ends
   - Has multiple language bindings
   - Multiple, multi stage rendered
   - Multiple display managers.
   - Key event bindings can be configured.
   - Loadable from libraries.
   - Core provides essential abstractions

Essential Abstractions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Everything is based around a pane. A rectangle area that can work
together and communicate with each other. Edlib works
with Panes. These are grouped by parent and child. Tiles appear on
top of the pane.  A document is a set of interfaces
provided by a pane. A document can be access by bytes, characters,
and lines. Multiple panes can access the one doc.
A mark is a location in a  document. Marks are groupable, and can\
be found with next or back commands.

Commands
~~~~~~~~

Commands pass control between panes. The plugins for EDLIB
include emacs like editing.

github.com/neilbrown.edlib.


Writing for Technical and Non-Technical Audiences
-------------------------------------------------

Rikki

Know what why who and how. Know who your reader is. Be mindful of
reuse because you’re going to want to write a hardest
piece with more detail first, and then repurpose that content for
different audiences. Resarch outline is needed. Then write and
revise the content.

   *Three categories of readers*

   - Lay
   - Manager -
   - Experts - These are the most demanding audience.
     Include the most details

Tech journalists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Often writing groups and communities don’t have writers and PR
professionals. Readh care feeding press for communities
and colleagues for writing press release. The best details for
writing and contacting tech journalists.
``net press.org/care-and-feeding-press``.

RTFM
~~~~~

How to write a manual worth reading. Rich something wrote a
really great article, and then there was a series of articles
from this one source.

Ready to write? Cool your jets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Shifting gears to write in different genres. Reading component.
Stephen King’s advice on writing fiction is useful across context.

***Reading before your start writing***.  Be clear on the
expectations of the writing tasks are.

How to give a report on events is a common task. Leslie
Hawthorn wrote ``how to write an excellent post event wrap up``.

Ansible
~~~~~~~

Greg Dekoeningsberg is VP of communication at Ansible. HIs content was
a good example of making use of information for multiple sources.
Writing multiple reports to different audiences. Ansible reworked the
content from a  dev mailing list into a blog post

Invite the reader in
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tell a Story
~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you rewrite, your job is to take everything out that is
not part of the story. Add hyperlinks or a list at the end.

Leave out the boring parts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Kerri does not like word counts. “As long as it needs to be”.
Unless pay is be word count, Word count is not a big deal.
At any rate, if it gets too long, it can be broken down into
multiple posts.

Greg K left out developing modules from his dev mailing list message.
Robin's post - the blog post - told more of a story into the
explanation of the problem.

Tech article tutorial or white paper includes a how-to step or
technical information in the centre of the whitepaper or how to.
It comes before the conclusion.

An outline or plan is needed to propose an article. A sample outline.

Facts
~~~~~

What the product is. When it was released. What platforms it runs on.
What the configuration requirements are. How much,

Edit
~~~~

Everyone should edit.

#opensource.com free node channel. Find the people who don’t care about
your attachment to the article.

rikki@opensource.com

Anthropology
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Genevieve Bell

Native American Studies and Feminist Theory.
Between 1880 and 1920 - Federo-ethno relationships.
Intel Called her for 7 months. “There is a moral obligation to make the
world better, and not sit on the sidelines”
Un-reconstructed Marxist and a radical feminist.
Be in the middle of the heady moment of building the infrastructure we
now live in today. “In my notebook for the day I write down “Woman - All”
R.O.W - Rest of World.
A fascination with the future. Being interested in the future has a
major history. Predicting the future manifested as supernatural
superstition.
A reoccupation that spans many cultures and 10s of thousands of years.
1957 ad for American Asociation of Electricity companies.
People hope convenience,This add reveals this line of thinking.
Ideas of Food. Labour. Public vs Private. Deeply revealing about that
moment in time.
Every new technology is accompanied by a story about what world it
will make.
“That moment when people encounter data about themselves - Creepy”

connectivity
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Devices, network, and human beings. We function better as human
beings when we can have a moment when we are not switched on. We need time
to feel different. Day night, weeks weekends are all flattened.
This can feel the same over time.
Humans have long standing social structures designed
for us to experience time differently.
One of the promises that her colleags comment on - “seamlessly connected”.
“What are the judgements that will be made about me,
and who is going to know about it” -
City wide aggregated data revealed publicly.
The average human being tells 60 to 200 lies a day.
Appraching 200 is in the running for American President.
“What are we also revealing when we don’t tell the truth?” Kevin Kelly,
Stuart Brand “The internet would bring transparency.”
Many social I’lls would be transformed.
:Every algorithm embeds a set of assumption about how the world works”
G. Bell. Algorithins of recommendation
“If you did this, you will like this..”
“What does it mean to live in a  world where our choices… are shaped by
what people have already done.” A world where we choose to go in a
different direction
are increasingly difficult. Algorithims of surprise are much more
difficult.

Security
~~~~~~~~

IOT, network, algorithms can be hacked. Infrastructure is hacked.
A hacker attacks hospital insulin and morphine drips. Not good.
Fingerprint theft in a data - bolus stolen by a hacker.
Government interest and securit and backdoors means for a blurry
line of security. The metaphor for security is still a padlock.
Bruce Sterling “The Epic Struggle for the Internet of Things”.
A medical company purchased credit card data, and tracked a
persons medicine purchases.
Positive correlation between emergency rooms and flat pack IKEA
furniture. You can use light and dark makeup such that it renders
facial recognition software
useless. “What if everything you ever did and said was available.
If you could never escape the things you said, and was said to you?”
Data as perennial information.

Innovation
~~~~~~~~~~

Accompanied by vast utopia and distopia settings. We want new
technology, and all that represents but we are deeply fearful
of the consequences.
What manners of inequities are produced, what are continued,
what are disrupted? Moores law what is better is well known and
clearly articulated.
“You all have to get it right”.

“Treated my first year at Intel like field work”
“Talk about what we do so it makes sense to people beyond
our discipline”


Python’s Dark Corners
---------------------

Peter Lovett
“There’s not many dark corners.” “There is an elephant in the corner”
4 million hits to Python sucks google.

Whitespace.
Python errors in white space. Spaces and tab. Python -t
“inconsistent uses of tabs” -tt shows where tabs are located.
Tab nanny can prevent tabs working i

Everything is an Object

It’s just a name p1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Names and Objects. A is is not a list in a = [1. 2. 3.]. It is a
reference. A pointer. “is” represents or embodies a useful
operator. ``str`` turns **int** to a **string**.


It’s just a name p2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Don’t call variables the same as built in functions” The only
problem with __builtin__ is that it is not preinstalled.
in python 3, the names true and false are references in python 3.

Accidental name creation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Can I stop the rebinding of built in function names? No. Python
loses some of the protection that more strict languages
have.

Scoping rules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The binding of a name locally inside a variable localises the name.
If you don’t it refers to the global variable. If you do,
then it binds locally.

print i, i = 6, print i, i = 5, fn(), print i - prints an error.
Unbound local error. Also do not use global.

Surprising namespace rules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Maths issues. The problem is IEEE .This set the standard of how base
2 fractional numbers would implement.
Not Python’s fault. Don’t use floating point. Solve everything in
“in ce” Decimal class has tuneable number places and rounding
techniques despite performance costs.
n = 5
``++n`` = 5 because their is no “+”. + operator can add incremental
amounts if needed.

Syntaxt issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Don’t place items after the colon. Slicing is very good syntax to know.

Consistency in name conventions is key

Fedora 23 to have python 3. Ubuntu is moving to python 3.

What is a loop?

Bradely Kuhn
------------

Copy left is a strategy, not a principal unto itself. Co-optio is
where a larger group assimilates a smaller group with less power or
weakness in the
environment. IT is a legal/social term. Astroturfing is false
grassroots movements, masking people’s grassroots voices and
redirecting the
‘hearsay’ and rumour into something that serves a powerful
corporation.

Principals of community enforcement

Giving up on the GPL: Twin Peaks and Red Hat - RH tried GPL
violations as a defence.

Lawyer work is dangerous profession for non-lawyers. For legal
departments, if you are not paying them yourselves, than they may not
be your lawyer.
“I know of two venues for Lawyers to meet…’how can we make this
copy left stuff less of a problem for us?’ “
“How do we encourage more company copyrights in GPL software?” A
strategy for limiting creator copyright holdings in GPL work.

A robotics talk
---------------

Security and Secretd
--------------------

The problem the are looking at is can code be secret? Yes, and
propriety software is an example. Most
problems tie back into the Key usage for stores, which end up being
complex and insecure. Updates and
manual working can also create blockers.

A new security tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A new security solution supports bootstrapping and re-bootstrapping.
Secret D architecture recruits a client, which
connected through SSH to the Server. A secret-shell then interacts with
secrets. This connects with a TCP-UNix socket to
postgres. The database structure is more simple. Principals, attach to
groups. Groups to cal, and the secrets attack to an
acl_types (something). So what do these boxes represent ?

User can add other UI’s over the Unix sockets, like a web UI. This has
not been written yet.












